
SCARE is secondary clone of jAsea, Mark J. Tilford's Java GPL clone of the
Adrift Runner.

It aims to provide an ANSI/ISO C core Adrift interpreter, capable of running
Adrift version 4.00, version 3.90, and version 3.80 games, and portable enough
to run on Linux, Windows, DOS, Macintosh, Amiga, or any platform that offers
an ANSI/ISO C compiler.

For details on building SCARE, please see the file BUILDING.  For details on
porting SCARE to various input/output schemes, please see PORTING.  For
details on running Adrift games in SCARE, please see RUNNING.  For details on
the game debugger in SCARE, please see DEBUGGER.  For details on SCARE's test
suite, please see TESTING.  For details on compatibility with the Adrift
Runner, please see FEATURES.

SCARE is based on jAsea.  For more information on jAsea, please visit

    http://sourceforge.net/projects/jasea

SCARE also contains copious code from Zlib, to the point where it actually
carries around a full copy of the Zlib source within it.  Zlib is

    Copyright (C) 1995-2005 Jean-loup Gailly and Mark Adler

    Jean-loup Gailly        Mark Adler
    jloup@gzip.org          madler@alumni.caltech.edu

The SCARE source code is released under the GPL.  The ubiquitous COPYING file
contains everything you need to know on that.

SCARE's home on the Web is in the IF Archive, under programming/adrift.

Thanks to Jan-Erik Karlsson for work on SCARE for Amiga; Uli Kusterer for work
on the Macintosh SCARE build; Thomas Payerle for slogging through the Adrift
version 3.90 TAF file format; Rik Snel for his work to uncovering the TAF file
obfuscation used by Adrift versions 3.90 and 3.80; David Kinder for the
Windows specific Glk startup code; Emily Short for uncovering bugs that only
showed up well into a couple of games; Robert Goodwin, Richard Otter, Eric
Mayer, Todd Watson, Nick Rogers, and Sam Trenholme for miscellaneous bug
reports; and David Whyld for bug reports and detailed game walkthroughs for
reference and testing.

And, of course, to Mark J. Tilford who started this whole thing in the first
place with jAsea, providing almost all of the Adrift reverse engineering that
SCARE uses.  Without jAsea, there would be no SCARE.

Simon Baldwin, simon_baldwin@yahoo.com

